- 1
	- a
		- I
			- In Paper
		- II
			- In Paper
	- b
		- I
			- In Paper
		- II
			- In Paper
		- III
			- The model used does not account for air resistance, which would slow down the ball's velocity
- 2
	- a
		- I
			- The moment of a force is the rotational effect of a force, defined as the force multiplied by perpendicular distance between line of action of the force and the point
		- II
			- Rear set, due to the centre of mass being closer to the rear wheels.
		- III
			- In Paper
	- b
		- In Paper
	- c
		- In Paper
- 3
	- a
		- I
			- A : Cladding
			- B : Core
		- II
			- In Paper
	- b
		- In Paper
	- c
		- The core of the fibre is made to be narrow to avoid modal dispersion. This is caused by the light not entering the core at the same angle, which will spread out the signal as the light takes slightly different paths through the fibre.
	- d
		- Under-sea communication cables : This has the benefit of greatly increasing communication speed between continents, increasing co-operation between countries.
- 4
	- a
		- I
			- In Paper
		- II
			- In Paper
		- III
			- In Paper
	- b
		- I
			- In Paper
		- II
			- In Paper
	- c
		- By increasing the tension of the string, which can be achieved by using the tuning pegs on the guitar.
- 5
	- a
		- That the nature of light is that of a wave.
	- b
		- I
			- Only produces light of a single wavelength / colour.
		- II
			- Only produces light of a constant phase difference
		- III
			- Using eye protection that protects against that wavelength.
	- c
		- In Paper
	- d
		- This will decrease the fringe spacings, because due to the equation, $W=\frac{\lambda D}{s}$, The only variable changing is $\lambda$, so as $\lambda$ decreases, $W$ decreases.
- 6
	- a
		-   