# Registers and Busses
- CU: Co-ordinates all activities in the CPU, Controls the flow of data around the CPU. Decodes and executes instructions 
- PC: Holds the address of the next instruction to be executed. Copies its data to the MAR to send across the address bus. 
- MAR: Holds the memory location of data to be written to or fetched from. 
- MDR: Stores data to be written to or fetched from memory, All data from memory must pass through this register. 
- CIR: The current instruction register holds the current instruction being decoded or executed. Contains opcode and operand. 
- ALU: Where arithmetic or logical calculations are done. 
- ACC: General purpose register for holding temporary data, specifically results from the ALU. 
- Address Bus: Carries addresses of memory to be written to or fetched. 
- Data Bus: Used to write data to memory or fetch it from. 
- Control Bus: Used to send command signals throughout the CPU and the rest of the computer. 

# Assembly Code
Assembly is a low level programming language, only second to direct binary. In Assembly, functions are defined by mnemonics, such as LDA for Load. These correspond to an opcode of an instruction, where the operand is a location in memory (for the example load)

# FDE Cycle
A CPU fetches instructions and data from memory by first checking the PC, copying it to the MAR, identifying the location in memory, then waiting for a control signal from the control bus. Once this is sent, the instruction will be written to the MDR, where it will store it in the CIR, at which point the program counter will increment. After this the CU will decode the instruction, and based on that will do several things, if it is a load instruction it will send the operand to the MAR to load from memory, and send a load signal through the control bus or if it was an add signal it would send the operand to the ALU to add to its current data, where it would be sent to the ACC.  

For branching programs the operand will be written to the PC, so the PC will send that data to the MAR to send down the address bus.

# CPU Performance
The three factors affecting the performance of the CPU are as follows:
- Clock Speed: This is the number of cycles per second that can be done, measured in hertz. Most modern processors can do 3 GHz (3 billion cycles a second) which is incredible 
- Cache size: Temporary storage on or near the CPU, much quicker and more expensive than normal memory 
- Number of Cores: This is the number of actual processing units in a CPU, and therefore affects how many FDE cycles can be done simultaneously
Note: Doubling the cores does not necessarily mean the speed is doubled.

# Pipelining

Pipelining is the process of using several cores to do each FDE cycle, so core 1 will fetch instruction 1, then core 1 will fetch instruction 2 while core 2 decodes instruction 1, and so on. 

Core 1 (Fetch)|Core 2 (Decode)|Core 3 (Execute)
---|---|---
Instruction 1|
Instruction 2|Instruction 1
Instruction 3|Instruction 2|Instruction 1

Pipelining deals with branching in programs badly, as if Instruction 4 says if x<5: and x is greater, then all instructions below it will need to be “flushed” from the CPU and therefore work will be wasted.