# Instruction Sets
A CISC processor is a processor that uses lots of machine codes to run. These processors have variable opcode sizes because of the size of the command list.  A RISC processor is a processor that uses little machine codes, meaning all opcodes and instructions can be the same size, allowing for pipelining. 

CISC processors sound better and more efficient on the surface, however because of their inability to pipeline and speed up processing by implementing multiple cores, as it can have commands that run over several FDE cycles, it is overall worse for larger datasets because it cannot increase its speed, unlike RISC processors. 

CISC processors are more often used in Desktops and Laptops, while RISC processors are used more often in phones/tablets.

# GPU and Parallel Processing
GPU stands for graphical processing unit; this explains its original use – a dedicated co-processor tailored for graphics.  

Once computers started getting more complicated the CPU began taking on lots of stress, so people created co-processors: separate, specialised processing units, like the GPU. 

A GPU is no longer used for only graphics nowadays, as people realised its SIMD architecture is very useful for doing simple tasks on large data sets, examples are crypto mining, stock predictions, weather modelling, etc.

## Parallel Processing
Multicore processors are processing units that contain several CPUs, known as cores. Most commonly the number of cores are some power of 2. 

If the core count is doubled, it doesn’t mean that the speed of the PC will double, this is because some applications don’t support multicore processing, and the loss of time due to communications inside the CPU. 

Parallel systems are systems where cores are used at the same time as each other, greatly increasing the speed of the processor. 

Pipelining is one example of parallel systems, and another is where a job is split into tasks, and these tasks can be processed by any core available. The main processor decodes an instruction and then farms off these instructions to other parts of the processor.